Analysis Accuracy of XGBoost Model for 
Multiclass Classification - A Case Study of 
Applicant Level Risk Prediction for Life 
Insurance 
 
Widya Fajar Mustika 
Department of Mathematics 
Universitas Indonesia 
Depok, Indonesia 
widya.fm@sci.ui.ac.id 
 Hendri Murfi 
Department of Mathematics 
Universitas Indonesia 
Depok, Indonesia 
hendri@sci.ui.ac.id 
 Yekti Widyaningsih 
Department of Mathematics 
Universitas Indonesia 
Depok, Indonesia 
yekti@sci.ui.ac.id 
 
 
Abstract - Risk level assessment for insurance applicants is 
an important part of life insurance, so it needs to  be classified. 
Determination of the level of risk claims on life i nsurance is 
based on the applicant's historical data. Submissio n to become 
a member of a life insurance requires a short time.  But the 
application of a machine learning model can help cl assify 
prospective insurance applicants based on the level  of risk 
quickly. One machine learning model is Extreme Gradi ent 
tree boosting (XGBoost) which is a decision tree ba sed model. 
This model is used to predict risk in life insurance . The 
missing values in the data used are overcome by sev eral 
strategies in the data processing process to increa se the 
accuracy value of the XGBoost model. The results of this study 
show that the accuracy of the XGBoost model is 0.60 730 with 
kappa units which indicates that the XGBoost model is very 
good and can be applied to the problem of predictin g the level 
of risk claims for life insurance applicants. When compared to 
the decision tree, random forest and Bayesian ridge  models, 
the performance of the XGoost model still excels in  processing 
missing values in the data used. 
Keywords — risk level prediction, big data, machine learning, 
multi-class classification, ensemble learning, XGBo ost 
I.  INTRODUCTION  
Insurance is an agreement between two parties, name ly 
the insurer and insurance applicant (the insured) w hich is 
the basis for receiving premiums by insurance compa nies to 
provide compensation due to damage or loss due to a n 
uncertain event [1]. Insurance is a risk transfer a ctivity from 
one party to another party in which there are rules  and 
principles compiled by both parties. 
There are several types of insurance offered by 
insurance companies, one of which is life insurance . Life 
insurance is insurance that protects both individua ls and 
families from unexpected financial losses, which ar e caused 
by death, lifelong disability, or no longer product ive [2].  
Risk is defined as the results or consequences caus ed by 
events that occur or that will occur in the future.  The 
community needs life protection for a more prospero us life. In fighting for prosperity, it cannot be separated from the 
risks that arise. Risk prediction is one of the mos t effective 
ways to overcome financial shortages [3]. The risk in life 
insurance is caused by several factors, namely acci dents, 
medical conditions or health, lifestyle, and age gr oups. The 
risks associated with life insurance claims are gen erally 
different for each person. Therefore, it is very im portant for 
life insurance companies to predict the level of ri sk for 
prospective insurance policyholders to determine th e 
premium value according to the level of risk. 
The applicant's risk level usually is categorized 
following the filing data held by the applicant. Th e manual 
categorization requires a lot of time because there  are many 
life insurance applicants with various data, i.e., age, height, 
weight, work history, insurance history, medical hi story, 
family history [4]. Moreover, the historical data r elated to 
this need is also big. Machine learning is a common  method 
to imitate human capability in fast predicting the level of 
risk [5]. From the machine learning point of view, the 
problem of the risk level prediction is supervised learning, 
that is, a multi-class classification problem. 
XGBoost is a recent machine learning model that is 
popular because of its good accuracy and efficient out-of-
core ensemble learning [6]. XGBoost uses a decision  tree as 
a base learner and a generalization of the gradient  boosting 
method to construct the next base learners. This mo del 
construction is rather different from another ensem ble 
learning, e.g., random forest, where the constructi on a base 
learning does not depend on other base learners. Mo reover, 
XGBoost is the sparsity aware algorithm that can ha ndle the 
missing values of the historical data. It means tha t historical 
data containing missing values can be processed wit hout 
any imputation preprocessing. 
In this paper, we apply and analyze the accuracy of  
XGBoost for the problem of risk level prediction in  life 
insurance. We compare the accuracy with ones of the  
decision tree and random forest with standard imput ation 
978-1-7281-2380-6/19/$31.00 ©2019 IEEE2019 5th International Conference on Science in Information Technology (ICSITech)
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of St. Gallen. Downloaded on March 16,2026 at 20:04:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

preprocessing. Our simulations show that the XGBoos t 
model outperforms both decision tree and random for est. 
The rest of the paper is organized as follows: In s ection 
2, the reviews of related works are presented. Sect ion 3 
describes the methods of research. Section 4 descri bes the 
implementation, simulation., result, and discussion .  Finally, 
we give a conclusion in Section 5.  
II.  RELATED  WORK 
Big data is related to large data. Definition of bi g data is 
a term that describes a large volume of data at hig h speed, 
complex, and contains variables that require advanc ed 
techniques and technology to enable the capture, st orage, 
distribution, management and analysis of informatio n [7]. 
In Galicia's paper, it represents an ensemble model  for 
forecasting large data time series. The ensemble mo del used 
consists of three methods (decision tree, gradient tree 
boosting, and random forest) which are proposed bec ause 
the three results have been achieved in the big dat a 
application where the weights of the ensemble model  are 
calculated using the least square method [8]. 
The use of the XGBoost model related to problems in  
the insurance industry, namely Chen and Guestrin (2 016) 
has conducted research related to the comparison of  the 
scalability of the XGBoost model and other models i n the 
case of regression problems insurance of motor vehi cle [6]. 
Fauzan and Murfi (2017) have implemented the XGBoos t 
model in predicting whether policyholders "submit c laims" 
or "not submit claims" on insurance claims [9]. Cha ng 
(2018) applied the XGBoost model in the constructio n of a 
financial credit risk assessment model. These three  studies 
applied the XGBoost model in dealing with problems in life 
insurance, but cases in all three models handled ca ses of 
binary regression and classification [10]. Based on  the 
related research, in this thesis will be applied an d analyzed 
the extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost) model in th e case 
of the multiclass classification to predict the lev el of risk in 
Prudential life insurance. The accuracy of the XGBo ost 
model will be compared with several other machine 
learning models to see the performance of the XGBoo st 
model. 
III.  METHODS  
In this section, we discuss the methods used. The 
method used is the CART method, which is the basic 
method for the XGBoost model. 
A.  Classification and Regression Trees 
The Classification and Regression Trees (CART) 
method was introduced by Leo Breiman in 1984. CART is 
a method of a decision tree that is included in 
nonparametric statistics [11]. CART is a binary dec ision 
tree that is built by dividing a node into two root  vertices 
repeatedly. The basic idea of the CART tree formati on is to 
choose to split between all possible splitting at e ach node so 
that the root node of the child produced is the pur est. 
For example, given training data, namely D as follows: 
                                            (1)                                          (2) 
                                           (3) 
                                          (4) 
Where  is the number of life insurance applicants,  is 
the number of predictor variables in the data,  is the data 
for applicants for applicant,  is all values of the  
predictor variable, and  is the actual target, namely the 
risk level of life insurance applicants.  
In the case of the multiclass classification, CART was 
built based on training data, so that training data  with the 
same level or value would be grouped. The CART 
formation process is done by selecting features and  
threshold values or splitting rules that make the p urest data 
partitions, observations with the same level or val ue 
grouped on each branch of the tree formed. In the c ase of 
multilevel classification, the output function  of CART is 
a structure of binary tree graphs with a level that  
corresponds to input data where each node of the gr aph 
contains a data set of life insurance applicants, s o the 
function  in a data x, can be written 
       ,            (5) 
                                                 (6) 
                                 (7) 
where  is the number of leaf node at ,36  is a 
function that maps data  to one of the leaf node at ,  
index data which is on a leaf node , and  
weight of leaf on . The purity of a node can be calculated 
with Gini impurity, which is defined by: 
                                                 (8) 
where  is many levels, which have probability , with 
 The value of this root node will be 
minimum if the data on the node only consists of on e level 
or if the node contains data with a similar or homo geneous 
level. 
B.  Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost)  
The ensemble method consists of two main approaches , 
namely bagging and boosting. Bagging method, which is to 
build several models independently, is used to incr ease the 
accuracy of predictions sequentially at a given tim e, where 
the final prediction is the average prediction [12] . Boosting, 
which is to build several models in a sequence wher e the 
error function used to build a model depends on the  
performance of the previous model. The process of 
boosting method depends on the accuracy of the basi c 
model of the weak hypothesis that is the smallest [ 13]. 
An example of a boosting approach is the gradient 
boosting method that can be implemented in various 
problems, both regression, and classification. Rese arch on 
gradient boosting has been carried out from various  2019 5th International Conference on Science in Information Technology (ICSITech)
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of St. Gallen. Downloaded on March 16,2026 at 20:04:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

sciences since the 1990s. Gradient boosting was fir st 
introduced by Leo Breiman (1984) that boosting can be 
interpreted as an appropriate optimization algorith m [14]. 
The boosting process is to minimize Root Mean Squar e 
Error (RMSE) sequentially, where the concept of gra dient 
boosting lies in its development, namely the expans ion of 
additional criterion fittings [15]. 
The Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) method is 
the development of a gradient boosting model that h as 
superior results and process speeds. XGBoost has th e 
advantage of processing missing value data without 
imputation of data at the beginning of learning. [1 6].  
The XGBoost method applies the process of 
classification and regression trees (CART) as weak learners 
and increases the performance of each tree formed b y 
minimizing its objective regularization function. T he 
XGBoost method has good ability to predict, especia lly in 
the case of classification, because this method has  concepts 
such as sparsity awareness algorithms for each tree  that is 
formed as well as out of core calculations that aim  to speed 
up computing [6]. 
Algorithm 1: Exact Greedy Algorithm for Split Findi ng  
Input: , instance set of the current node 
Input: , feature dimension 
 
dan  
for  to : 
     
    for in sorted do: 
         ,   
         ,  
          
   end 
end  
Output: Split with max score  
Fig.1 Exact Greedy Algorithm for Split Finding 
 
C.  Sparsity Aware Split Finding  
Missing values is information or data that is not 
available for an object given. Missing data because  there is 
no data or information for an object, not found or indeed 
data or information is difficult to find. The exist ence of 
missing values with only a small number, for exampl e, only 
1% of all data, is basically not a problem for the entire 
dataset. However, if the percentage of the missing values is 
quite large, it is necessary to handle whether the data 
containing many of the missing is still feasible to  be 
processed or not.  
The novelty introduced by XGBoost is the ability to  
overcome missing values. When a value is a missing value 
in the dataset, it will be immediately classified u sing the 
default direction. The default direction of each no de on the 
CART is formed through the sparsity aware split alg orithm. The algorithm stage begins with the formation of a root 
node containing a subset of observation data, then the 
algorithm collects all observational data with the value of 
each feature not a missing value in the dataset I. Next, 
calculate the gain obtained from splitting to the r ight and 
left to each observation on dataset I. is then stor ed based on 
the maximum split direction for all observations on  dataset 
I as the optimal value of features. This stage cont inues to 
repeat for each feature, and the default direction is obtained 
by taking the optimal value for each feature. Follo wing are 
the sparsity algorithms aware of split finding [6],  
Algorithm 2: Sparsity aware Split Finding 
Input: , instance set of the current node  
Input:    
Input:  feature dimension 
Also applies to the approximate setting, only colle ct 
statistic of non-missing entries into buckets 
 
  
for  to  do 
       // enumerate missing values goto right  
        
       for   in sorted do  
 
  
  
end      
// enumerate missing values goto left 
        
       for   in sorted do 
  
   
  
end 
end 
Output: Split and default direction with max gain  
Fig 2. Sparsity Aware Split Finding Algorithm 
IV.  IMPLEMENTATION,  SIMULATION,  RESULT,  AND  
DISCUSSION 
This section explains the research process, startin g from 
the stages of data collection. Then processing the data to get 
the accuracy of the XGBoost model. 
A.  Data Sets 
The data used in this study is risk level data from  the 
Prudential Life Insurance company. This data shows 
information on life insurance applicants used to bu ild and 
evaluate risk predictors. This data is obtained fro m the 
https://www.kaggle.com/c/prudential-lifeinsurance-
assessment website, a site that organizes open comp etitions 
for data science and machine learning. The followin g is the 
details of the data that will be used in this study  
• Data measuring 59381 x 128 in the .csv format. 2019 5th International Conference on Science in Information Technology (ICSITech)
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of St. Gallen. Downloaded on March 16,2026 at 20:04:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

• There are 128 features that explain the attributes of life 
insurance applicants 
• There are missing values in the dataset of 393110 f rom 
13 different features in the dataset 
• The dataset containing the missing values is shown in 
Fig 3. 
Fig 3. Percentage of features with missing values o n Prudential data  
Fig 3. shows the percentage of features with missin g 
values from the least to the most. The results of t he 
identification of the dataset against missing value s are there 
are missing values on some features in the dataset.  The 
lowest percentage of features with the least missin g values 
is the Employment_Info_1 feature, and the highest 
percentage of features with the most missing values  is the 
Medical_History_10 feature. The missing values resu lt in a 
method that does not work optimally, even error, an d 
causes the method accuracy to be low. 
B.  Preprocessing Data  
The Prudential dataset contains categorical data th at 
cannot be processed, namely in the form of A1, B1, C3, ... 
and so on in the Product_Info_2 feature. Therefore,  a 
technique is needed to convert the data into a form  that can 
be processed. In this study, a technique was used t o 
overcome this problem, namely the encoder label 
technique. 
The label encoder technique is used to convert non-
numeric categorical data types to numerical data. T he data 
in the Product_Info_2 feature is converted accordin g to the 
sequence starting at 0,1,2,3,4, ..., 18. If the cat egory in the 
Product_Info_2 feature reappears, it will be labele d 
according to the previous labeling 
The non-numeric data set transformation becomes 
numeric for the Product_Info_2 feature can be seen in 
Figure 4.5. Data changes in the Product_Info_2 feat ure, 
namely A1 to 0, A2 to 1, A3 to 2, A4 to 3, A5 to 4,  A6 to 5, 
A7 to 6, A8 to 7, B1 to 8, B2 to 9, C1 to 10, C2 be comes 
11, C3 becomes 12, C3 becomes 13, D3 becomes 14, D2  
becomes 15, D3 becomes 16, D4 becomes 17, and E1 
becomes 18.  C.  Learning  
 In the early stages of the simulation process, the  data is 
divided into two parts randomly, namely training da ta and 
testing data with a percentage of 20% data testing and 80% 
training data. Then 80% of the training data is div ided into 
two parts pickled with a proportion of 20% data tes ting and 
80% 
training data. 
This new 
data 
sharing 
process is 
done five 
times, 
resulting in five new datasets. 
Then, each dataset is carried out parameter 
optimization, which aims to determine the best para meter 
value of the model in the training data provided. I f a 
parameter in XGBoost is optimized, the other 
hyperparameter values are the default value. 
• The parameters used in building the XGBoost model 
are: 
• The maximum depth which is the depth of the tree. 
• Minimum child weight, which is the minimum amount 
of weight obtained from the derivative of both erro r 
(hessian) functions. 
• Subsample, namely the comparison or subsampling 
ratio of the dataset proposed to build the CART. 
• Colsample bytree, which is a comparison or 
subsampling dataset ratio used to construct each tr ee in 
a row and prevent overfitting. 
• Learning rate, known as shrinkage techniques that w ork 
in each tree boosting and reduce the influence of e ach 
tree and leaf to improve the XGBoost model 
• Alpha, namely L1 regularization and lambda, namely 
L2 regularization obtained from each iteration 
D.  Evaluation  
The evaluation in this study is based on the value of 
quadratic weighted kappa, which measures the agreem ent 
(agreement) between two raters in classifying objec ts. The 
kappa value is between 0 and 1. The more the kappa value 
approaches 1, the better the model is formed. The r esponse 
variable has eight possible ratings, and each appli cation is 
characterized by tuples whose values correspond to those of 
Rater A (actual target) and Rater B (target predict ion 
results). The Quadratic weighted kappa calculation phase is 
as follows: 
 
:  application received with rank to actual target and 
rank  o target prediction results Maximum depth  Accuracy  
5 0.57659 
10 0.59569 
15 0.59659 
20 0.59017 
25 0.58354 
30 0.57897 
35 0.57715 
2019 5th International Conference on Science in Information Technology (ICSITech)
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of St. Gallen. Downloaded on March 16,2026 at 20:04:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

 : weights are calculated based on the difference 
between assessors:   
E: rating expectations are calculated, assuming tha t there is 
no correlation between rating scores. 
A.  Result and Discussion 
The evaluation results of the XGBoost model on test ing 
data are in the form of accuracy with kappa units. The best 
parameters that have been optimized will be used fo r the 
final evaluation. The evaluation results of the XGB oost 
model based on the optimized parameters will be wri tten in 
TABLE I.until TABLE V. 
TABLE I.  ACCURACY RESULTS FROM MAXIMUM DEPTH 
OPTIMIZATION  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on TABLE I, the optimal value is obtained for  
the maximum depth parameter at value 15 with the hi ghest 
accuracy of 0.59659. The optimal maximum depth 
parameter value will be used to optimize the minimu m 
child weight parameters. Furthermore, optimization of the 
minimum child weight parameters is done. The result s of 
the optimization of the parameters of the minimum c hild 
weight can be seen in TABLE II. 
TABLE II.  ACCURACY RESULTS FROM MINIMUM CHILD WEIGHT 
OPTIMIZATION  
 
 
 
Based on Table II obtained the optimal value for th e 
minimum child weight parameter at value 1 with the 
highest accuracy of 0.59817. The optimal value of 
maximum depth and minimum child weight parameters w ill 
be used to optimize learning rate parameters. Next,  the 
learn 
ing 
rate 
para 
mete 
r 
opti 
miza 
tion 
is done; the results 
of the 
optimization of the rate parameters can be seen in TABLE 
III. TABLE III.  ACCURACY RESULTS FROM LEARNING RATE   
OPTIMIZATION   
 
 
 
Based on Table III obtained the optimal value for t he 
learning rate parameter at a value of 0.1 with the highest 
accuracy of 0.59808. The maximum parameter value, 
minimum child weight, and optimal learning rate wil l be 
used to optimize the subsample parameters. Furtherm ore, 
optimization of subsample and colsample bytree para meters 
is done; the results of accuracy from the optimizat ion of the 
subsample and colsample bytree parameters can be se en in 
TABLE IV. 
TABLE IV.  ACCURACY RESULTS FROM SUBSAMPLE  AND  
COLSAMPLE  BY  TREE  OPTIMIZATION  
 
Based on TABLE IV obtained the optimal value for th e 
colsample bytree parameter at value 1 with the high est 
accuracy of 0.59808. Colsample bytree parameter val ues 
cannot be extended anymore, because the maximum val ue 
is 1. The maximum depth parameter, minimum child 
weight, learning rate, subsample, and optimal colsa mple 
bytree will be used to optimize alpha parameters. 
Furthermore, alpha and lambda parameters optimizati on is 
done, the result of alpha and lambda parameters 
optimization can be seen in TABLE V. 
TABLE V.  ACCURACY RESULTS FROM ALPHA AND LAMBDA  
OPTIMIZATION  
 
 
 
Based on Table V obtained alpha parameter at value 1 
with the highest accuracy of 0.60064 and the optima l value 
for lambda parameters at value 1 with the highest a ccuracy 
of 0.60064. After optimizing all parameters in the XGBoost 
model, parameter optimization based on optimal para meter 
values is used to evaluate the initial testing data , the most 
optimal parameter values are obtained. Furthermore,  based 
on the value of the best parameters, the results of  the 
optimization are evaluated on testing data. The res ults of 
the evaluation obtained the best accuracy of the XG Boost 
model with a measurement unit of the kappa coeffici ent of 
0.60730. Minimum Child Weight  Accuracy  
1 0.59817 
5 0.59590 
10 0.59722 
15 0.59737 
Learning Rate  Accuracy  
0.001 0 
0.01 0.30356 
0.1 0.59808 
1 0.47647 
1.5 0.38208 Parameter 
Value Accuracy 
Subsample Colsample bytree 
0.5 0.59087 0.58806 
0.6 0.59133 0.59055 
0.7 0.59466 0.59260 
0.8 0.59522 0.59358 
0.9 0.59571 0.59438 
1 0.59808 0.59808 Parameter 
Value Accuracy 
Alpha Lambda 
0 0.59808 0.59566 
0.25 0.59826 0.59871 
0.5 0.59829 0.59638 
0.75 0.59951 0.59835 
1 0.60064 0.60064 2019 5th International Conference on Science in Information Technology (ICSITech)
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of St. Gallen. Downloaded on March 16,2026 at 20:04:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The performance of the XGBoost model will be 
compared to other machine learning models that have  been 
used to predict the risk level of life insurance ap plicants. 
Machine learning models that have been developed to  solve 
cases of classification, among them are decision tr ee and 
random forest  [17]. The treatment used is filling the 
missing values with the mean value and removing the  
missing values. . 
TABLE VI.  ACCURACY RESULTS DECISION TREE AND RANDOM 
FOREST USING A MEAN TECHNIQUE  
Machine Learning 
Model Accuracy 
XGBoost 0.60730 
Decision Tree 0.41678 
Random Forest 0.47599 
 
Based on Table VI, we see that the three models of data 
processing were carried out to deal with missing va lues 
with the mean technique, which is to fill the missi ng values 
with the average value. The accuracy of the three 
comparison models is determined based on the kappa 
coefficient value. The comparison model that has th e 
highest accuracy is the random forest model with an  
accuracy of 0.47599. Then the comparison model that  has 
the lowest accuracy is the decision tree model with  an 
accuracy of 0.41678. When compared with the XGBoost  
model, the highest accuracy is the XGBoost model wi th an 
accuracy of 0.60730. This happened because of missi ng 
values in all three models treated with the mean te chnique, 
where the value of the missing values was filled wi th the 
average value of life insurance data used. If at a feature, the 
average value is zero, then this will affect accura cy, where 
the accuracy of the model is low. 
TABLE VII.  ACCURACY RESULTS DECISION TREE AND RANDOM 
FOREST  USING DROP  TECHNIQUE  
Machine Learning 
Model Accuracy 
XGBoost 0,60730 
Decision Tree 0.41286 
Random Forest 0.47623 
 
Accuracy on the three models based on Table VII 
produces accuracy that is lower than the accuracy o f the 
XGBoost model. The treatment with the drop techniqu e 
also produces accuracy that is close to the mean te chnique. 
The accuracy of the xgboost model is still superior  when 
compared to the three comparison models. In the lea rning 
process, the xgboost model does not fill the missin g values 
with a value, but the value of the missing values w ill still be 
used in the learning process with the default direc tion found 
in the sparsity aware algorithm for splitting findi ng.  
V.  CONCLUSION  
 Based on the results of the research and analysis that 
have been conducted, it can be concluded that the E xtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) model can be applied in  the 
case of prediction of the applicant's risk level in  life 
insurance which is a case of multiclass classificat ion in the 
context of machine learning. The best parameters af ter 
being optimized used in this study are maximum dept h = 
15, minimum child weight = 1, subsample = 1, colsam ple 
bytree = 1, learning rate = 0.1; alpha = 1, lambda = 1. The 
accuracy of the XGBoost model by using the optimize d 
parameters shows high accuracy of 0.60730. The data set 
used is included in the big data with quite a lot o f missing 
values, but this has proven to not affect the perfo rmance of 
the XGBoost model itself. In the research, the XGBo ost 
model is considered capable of handling missing val ues 
well. 
The performance of the XGBoost model is superior 
compared to the decision tree, random forest, and B ayesian 
ridge models when predicting the risk level of life  insurance 
applicants. This is evidenced by the three comparat ive 
models of learning with the treatment of the missin g values, 
namely using the mean and drop techniques. But this  does 
not change the accuracy of the three models into hi gh-value 
accuracy. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT  
This Paper was supported by Universitas Indonesia 
under PIT9 2019 grant. Any opinions, findings, conc lusion, 
and recommendations are the authors’ and do not 
necessarily reflect those of the sponsor. 
REFERENCES  
[1]  H. Kaushalya, G. Karunasena, and D. Amarathunga, “R ole of 
insurance in post disaster recovery planning in bus iness community,” 
Procedia Economics and Finance, 4th International C onference on 
Building Resilience, vol 18, pp 626 – 634, 2014 . 
[2]  A. L. Alhassan and NBiekpe, “Determinants of Life I nsurance 
Consumption in Africa,” Research in International B usiness and 
Finance, vol 37, pp 17 – 27, 2016. 
[3]  X. Xie, G. Fu, Y. Xue, Z. Zhao, P. Chen, B. Lu, and  S. Jiang. “Risk 
prediction and factors risk analysis based on IFOA- GRNN and 
apriori algorithms: Application of artifiacl intell igence in accident 
prevention,”. Process Safety and Environmental Prot ection, vol/ 122, 
2019. 
[4]  S. Lim and S. Chi, “Xgboost application on bridge m anagement 
systems for proactive damage estimation,”. Advanced  Engineering 
Informatics, vol. 41, 2019. 
[5]  O. Y. Al-Jarrah, P. D. Yoo, S.  Muhaidat, G. K. Kar agiannidis, and 
K. Taha, “Efficient machine learning for big data: A review,” Big 
Data Res., vol. 2 (3), pp. 87 – 93, 2015. 
[6]  T. Chen and C. Guestrin, “XGBoost: A Scalable Tree Boosting 
System,” International Conference on Knowledge Disc overy and 
Data Mining, New York: ACM, pp. 785–794, 2016. 
[7]  A. Gandomi and M. Haider, “Beyond the hype: Big dat a concepts, 
methods, and analytics,” International Journal of I nformation 
Management, vol. 35(2), pp. 137 – 144, 2015. 
[8]  A. Galicia, R. T. Llames, A. Troncoso, I. Koprinska , and F. M. 
Alvarez, “Multi-step forecasting for big data time series based on 
ensemble learning”. Elsevier: Knowledge-Based Syste ms, vol. 163, 
pp. 830 – 841, 2019. 
[9]  M. A. Fauzan and H. Murfi, “The accuracy of XGBoost  for 
insurance claim prediction,” International Journal Advance Soft 
Computing, vol. 10 (2), pp. 159 – 171, 2018. 
[10]  Y. C. Chang, K. H. Chang, and G. J. Wu, “Applicatio n of extreme 
gradient boosting trees in the construction of cred it risk assessment 
models for financial institutions,” Applied Soft Co mputing Journal, 
vol. 73, pp. 914 – 920, 2018. 2019 5th International Conference on Science in Information Technology (ICSITech)
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of St. Gallen. Downloaded on March 16,2026 at 20:04:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

[11]  A. Andriyashin, Financial application of classifica tion and regression 
trees. CASE-Center of applied statistics and econom ics. Berlin: 
Humbolt University, 2005. 
[12]  E.  M. Oliveira and F. L. C. Oliveira, “Forecasting  Mid-Long Term 
Electric Energy Consumption Through Bagging ARIMA a nd 
Exponential Smoothing Methods,”  Energy, vol. 144, pp.776 – 788, 
2017. 
[13]  Y. Freund and R. E. Schapire, R. “A Decision-Theore tic 
Generalization of On-Line Learning and an Applicati on to 
Boosting,” Journal of Computer and System Sciences,  vol. 55, 
pp.119 – 139, 1997. 
[14]  L. Breiman, J. H. Friedman, R. Olshen, C. J. and St one, 
Classification and Regression Trees, 1984.  
[15]  J. H. Friedman, Greedy Function Approximation: A Gr adient 
Boosting Machine. Ann. Stat, Vol. 29, p.5, 2001. 
[16]  Z. Xu, L. Yan, and M. Wang, “Complex Production Pro cess 
Prediction Model Based On EMD-XGBOOST-RLSE,” The 9t h 
International Conference on Modelling, Identificati on and Control 
(ICMIC), pp.940 – 947, 2017. 
[17]  S. Sumathi. Introduction to Data Mining and Its App lications. 
Germany: Springer Verlag berlin Heidelberg, 2017. 2019 5th International Conference on Science in Information Technology (ICSITech)
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of St. Gallen. Downloaded on March 16,2026 at 20:04:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 